In that thick foliage of green and brown and the occasional pink of trillium lies the dilapidated entryway, its thick door covered in rust and vegetation. The opening is narrow but not claustrophobic, and inside, a staircase descends into darkness, the space unusually clean&mdash;almost sterilized&mdash;in stark contrast to the run-down trapdoor. Afternoon sunshine streams through the canopy of maple and pine, bathing the woods in a sublime light to which Oliver DeCannes, Robert Millson, and Emery Sanchez attach no interest, preoccupied by their discovery.
The three young men met in high school and forged a powerful friendship which continued ever since. Now in their twenties, there is nothing they take pleasure in more than a serene hike together in the Canadian wilderness. They look at the entrance in wonder&mdash;and deep within, though no one wants to admit it, a cold tingle of apprehension.
"What do you think it is, Em?" Oliver asks.
"Hell if I know. But out here, this remote... they must've wanted to keep it a secret," replies Emery. Standing nearest the opening, the tallest man of the trio gives the other two a bizarre yet much welcome sense of warmth and security.
"So where Rob hid his <em>balloons</em> that December night..." Oliver trails off, a sly grin forming on his lips as Robert reacts with a playful "Oh, piss off" and Emery giggles at the inside joke. In little moments like these, when banter takes over, whatever tension the three men had before would dissipate. As the atmosphere lightens, their attention returns to the mystery waiting beyond the staircase.
An exchange of looks, three conspiratorial smiles, and the decision is made. They were born for adventure. And after an already golden weekend, why not end it with something daring?
Emery leads and Oliver trails. They turn on their phones' flashlights and descend carefully. There's that simmering sense of unease again. Oliver cracks another joke and the others laugh a little too forcefully.
They soon arrive at a large, open room. Upon entry, as if the space senses their presence, bright white light floods the room to elated cheers and the satisfying pops of perfect handshakes. Aside from a round table in the middle, two stacks of chairs near the entrance, and a large television screen at the right wall, the room has no defining features and is eerily nondescript.
As soon as Emery lays his eyes on the open door at the back, he grins and walks towards it. Exploration awaits, but the trio is oblivious to the horrors lurking beyond.


The place is enchanting in its labyrinthine assortment of near-empty rooms and lack of hallways. One room leads to several others, the rooms separated by thick metal doors that are often open. Nothing offers a clue to what purpose these spaces once held, what operation occurred within these walls, since objects of interest&mdash;cabinets, screens, closets&mdash;are always off, locked, or empty. The whole site is not unlike that old urban legend which told of a space where randomly segmented rooms stretched on for God knows how long in every direction, where the only color is a faded yellow of moisture and decay, where malevolent entities, wandering the halls, will pursue you to a certain demise.
Robert shivers as he recalls the legend. He scribbles down the details of this new room they just entered&mdash;a square table at the far-left corner, two closets to the right, a screen near the door&mdash;to his ever-growing map made from hurried strokes and strikethroughs of pen. The trio has explored fourteen rooms already, if his wrinkly record is correct; they are five rooms deep, four doorways separating them from the entrance to the complex. They ought to not go deeper. The anxiety was building in the background, that voice incessant, whisper-screaming "Get out of there!" until Robert cannot ignore it further.
"Guys, we had enough fun here. Let's go back."
Emery and Oliver turn his way. A long pause. Consideration. Then Emery, always the de facto leader of the group in these situations, decides.
"Yeah, my spidey-sense has been tingling for a while."
"You did not just say 'spidey-sense,'" Oliver smirks in mockery.
"Come on, let's go."
They turn back. The group is quiet, a rarity. Even Oliver, ever the jester, has ceased his wisecracks. Something's not right.
"Was that chair there when we left this room?"
"Which chair, Sherlock? There's seven of them!"
"That one, in the middle, opposite the screen."
Emery contemplates the white chair. No, he's not sure. A distant worry rises.
"Yeah, I'm not sure. Walk faster. I wanna get back on my hike before next year." Emery picks up speed, the confidence taken for granted in his strides wavering, albeit imperceptibly. Oliver and Robert follow with shifty feet.
Three rooms away. Has that table moved to the right? Two rooms away. Wasn't this room a little bigger? One room away. There were chairs here before. And here they are, in the first room! The round table, the two stacks of chairs, the large screen...
"But where the hell is the staircase?"

At first, Emery suppressed his panic and calmed the others down and presented the oh-so-wonderful gift of a rational explanation: they simply made a mistake when retracing their path. It is after entering seven more rooms and being met with only the indifference of more tables, more chairs, and more goddamn doors, after turning Robert's map upside-down then downside-up then at every possible angle, after sitting in silence with haggard eyes and pearls of sweat on their foreheads, that the three men consider&mdash;then accept&mdash;their cruel reality: they are lost.
"Goddammit!" Oliver hammers his fist upon the table, a gesture to redirect his anger which would otherwise threaten to launch his unreceptive phone to the wall. The others stay silent, lost in whirlwinds of thought. "No signal. Nothing!"
Robert stares at the doorway in front of him. Beyond lies another room, a savage certainty that threatens to consume him from within. There are two doors at the far wall, a table&mdash;
A sudden shift in the air, an abrupt glitch. Then no table. And no doors. And at the back&mdash;Robert squints in disbelief&mdash;is that a...? He jumps up.
"The room right there just changed in front of my eyes." He points to the reality-defying space frenetically. "There used to be a table and two doors. I saw a glitch, almost, then they were gone. And on the floor, I'm pretty sure that's a&mdash;"
"Holy shit."

The room is small, the size of a modest bedroom. From the wall where the doors used to exist now hangs another television screen. But Emery's eyes, dilated, petrified, are focused elsewhere. His mouth is open but he is too shocked to speak.
Five steps from him, on the floor, unmistakable, undeniable, for one is wired to recognize the human form even under extreme desecrations, is a man who once lived. Its mutilated corpse, reduced by the relentless forces of time, is now but an amalgamation of putrefying flesh, scattered organs, and haphazard protrusions of bone, all lying in a pool of ghastly crimson. What on Earth could perpetrate such a sacrilege to human anatomy? And the stench&mdash;oh God, the stench! It is the miasma of rot and decay, of the merciless descent to nonexistence. But the three men cannot look away, frozen in a horrible paralysis that forces them to confront their own mortality.
Oliver breaks through first with a thunderous clap. "Snap out of it! Look over there." Startled, the two men return, and they see what Oliver saw.
A dry and intact camera lies beyond the body.


The screen flashes and shuffles; the image appears intermittently, then&mdash;
A disheveled middle-aged woman in a lab coat sits in the middle of the frame with vast dark circles under her eyes. Her movements are sharp, anxious. Behind her, peculiar pieces of equipment are scattered across the floor, and four shelves of nondescript books line the far wall. A singular incandescent bulb suspended from the ceiling provides uncanny illumination.
"Dr Linda Hansley-Gauthier reporting. Forty minutes ago, the subjects breached containment."
Her breathing accelerates as vivid images of spilled insides and quartered heads flash before her frenzied eyes. Her fellow biologists, segmented and emptied, littered across the floor and diminished to vulgar bags of blood. How cruel is the human psyche, to not consider enough horrors lived once, to play a constant slideshow of destruction she cannot suppress? She takes a deep breath and conjures up every ounce of effort to remain calm, to no avail. When she speaks again, her voice is still heavy with emotion.
"The things we dragged out of the mantle are on the loose and tearing apart any moving thing they see. Our bullets do jackshit. My friends are dead. Capitaine blocks the exit with a machine gun and says no cowardice will be tolerated. But I have a family! I have a husband and two daughters waiting for me at Montr&eacute;al, waiting for their mom to get a break from work again..."
The door reverberates. She stifles a whimper and trembles as an inhuman, vacuous growl resonates from beyond. Her eyes grow distant as she travels to a happy memory to seek some semblance of solace in the final moments before her inevitable end, but instead she finds a future reigned by death and terror, a world of desolate wastelands, where her daughters, grey and malnourished, are hunted by unspeakable monsters drawn from the depths of hell...
And the mother realizes she must protect her family.
Another collision forms a barbaric dent on the metal. Whatever stands behind the door is savage, feral. The bestial grunts grow louder. The hinges begin buckling.
"But I will not end here," she breathes.
Dr Linda Hansley-Gauthier extracts a shotgun from under the table, closes her eyes, and murmurs a faint prayer. When she opens them again, the fear and sadness have dissolved, leaving only a hardened regard. She has stopped trembling. And looking back at the camera, she smiles, and cocks her shotgun.


The trio had deemed it best to stay exactly where they are, lest they by some awful misfortune stumble upon one of the creatures who rained their unhinged wrath upon this facility. Though it would not have mattered anyway, for Oliver soon noticed that the rooms shuffle every fifteen minutes. This proof of teleportation did not elicit the tiniest reaction from Robert, who had fallen into a strange, deep trance, nor even Emery, who was too overwhelmed to be surprised. So after two hours of sitting beside the lacerated corpse, he almost dismissed the sight of the woman as the hallucination of a despairing man, a cruel last joke the universe plays on him before he is eventually also ripped to shreds.
Almost. He springs to his feet. As his vision comes to focus, he sees before him a bedraggled woman, her body gaunt, her clothes grimy, her face a husk of what it once was. She stares at him, too, with wild eyes. Emery greets the scientist tentatively:
"Dr Hansley-Gauthier?"

"You're twenty-four rooms away from the exit. Not great odds, considering many of the doors are still locked. Take advantage of the Relocation in this room"&mdash;she points to her hand-drawn map&mdash;"that's six minutes from now&mdash;and you can shorten that path by eight rooms. It's the best chance you've got."
The scientist speaks briskly, as if a terrible fate may befall her at any moment and she must brief these hapless travellers on everything she knows. A closer look at her reveals it must have been months since that chilling recording: an ashen, defeated visage, dirt and dust wedged in its folds and creases; a filthy lab coat of a thousand wrinkles, each multicolored stain an account of hardship or horror; carelessly trimmed nails and hair, jagged edges and uneven depths, tarnished to a gritty grey.
"Why don't you leave this place?" Oliver asks.
"I made a promise to destroy those fuckers," comes a terse reply.
And the four sink into a deep silence.

Facing the three men about to depart, Hansley-Gauthier utters a final adieu. All those tips she gave the travellers to increase their chances of survival and she's never mentioned the Hounds, let alone what to do if they encounter one. Maybe because she knows nothing can stop it once it has spotted prey. Maybe because bringing up the abomination evokes memories too painful to bear. So as her ephemeral companions drift out of sight, she implores all deities to let them survive.

Robert's feet strike the floor in disorderly steps, his movements those of an overworked machine on the brink of collapse. The past hours&mdash;or has it been days?&mdash;proved too much for him to handle. One can only see and hear and live so much before shock wears down and passivity kicks in. Deprived of the initial blast of adrenaline, events now barely register; his defense mechanism blocks any logical processing of information, instead simply receiving sensory input and working his limbs as a result.
For Emery, the world flies by in blurry streaks of white. He hasn't yet reached Robert's state, but numbness is a festering infection in his mind. He fears that those however many hours spent beside the mangled corpse may have altered him somehow&mdash;and irreversibly; perhaps in his deteriorating sense of time or the total lack of poise in his gait. An occasional glance at the scientist's map is the only thing that offers his mind a break from these worries.
Then suddenly, a shift in the air, and Emery's eyes widen in terror.
For in front of the trembling man, through three collinear doorways, an abhorrent stellated volume of undulating abyss stretching from floor to ceiling stops dead in its jittery tracks to contemplate three new objects of slaughter.
"Run."

Emery runs with the raw energy one only experiences when life is but a toothpick that can be snapped at any moment. Adrenaline pumps through his very essence as he turns his head repeatedly at an ever-closer morphing monstrosity of spikes and segments and splinters, a beast blacker than pitch-black, neither solid nor fluid but a viscous, vertiginous vortex of vicious void, its appendages atrocious extensions of that indescribable vacancy, for one cannot describe nonexistence: indeed, the thing does not occupy space; it empties it. A look upon the being is a look upon nought, a look upon the most literal meaning of death itself. With these Lovecraftian reflections, Emery decides to never glance back at the entity again.
He feels as though his heart will soon break out of his rib cage as he hears rumbles from the abomination trailing behind them. <em>Must focus on the future</em>. Only three rooms away. The ordeal will soon be over. Each new stride brings them closer to freedom, Emery tells himself. A turn to the right and only two rooms will separate them from the end of this nightmare. One last pivot to the left and&mdash;
No staircase. No exit. No salvation. Instead, the cosmos grants him the irony of cyclic history. And in his peripheral vision, from the room to the right, protrudes the unholy tendrils of another Hound.
"Go back! Turn left!" he shouts.
Panicked, Oliver and Robert execute. Emery pivots and follows them as the walls behind him resonate with guttural bellows. The rooms seem to shrink on him, bathing in a feverish glow. The men are desperate, running with no direction in mind, immediate survival now their sole objective. But the growls only grow closer...
"Shit, another to the left! Turn right!" someone yells from ahead.
They shift immediately as another vile body of black emerges from the left wall. Their sprinting blends the world into frenzied rays of light. And as sharks converge towards blood, dark smudges loom out from all sides, more creatures of the void, and Emery suddenly realizes they can't run fast enough, and doom is approaching with every passing second, and&mdash;
Death stands before him.
This impossible horror: its long, scraggly members scrape the floor and the walls and the ceiling; its eldritch body is an indeterminate structure of all-consuming abyss; its contours, constantly shifting, cast the most sinister shadow upon the petrified prey.
And behind the trio, their angular limbs clutching the doorways like horribly misshapen spiders, Hounds appear from all sides.


<em>Nine minutes earlier</em>.

Five months waiting for this opportunity. Halsey-Gauthier knows she needs to act now, but she can't shake the guilt growing inside her. The young men had lives to live, futures to behold... but a lifetime ago, she did, too. Did she not also give up everything? What's another sacrifice in the grand scheme of things?
She recalls the day all hell broke loose. Amid all the death and terror, her beloved daughters most often surfaced in the chaos that was her mind. She had to protect Olivia and Aur&eacute;lie, but did that mean escaping Complexe centrale, which at the sake of abandoning their mission would grant temporary clemency from the horrors beneath? Or did it mean risking her life&mdash;and any chance to see her daughters again&mdash;to fight an uncertain battle for all children in the world? After hours of wavering, the savage bangs on the door made up her mind.
Traversing the rooms she now knows so well, she stops occasionally to press a few buttons on her remote, turning on a screen to monitor her surroundings, or revealing a slot on the wall for a supply of batteries. Vivid memories of her family give her reason to continue as she heads towards Le C&oelig;ur.
Doubt sometimes crosses her mind: what if the men didn't lure out enough Hounds? But the notion of all this sacrifice in vain is too painful to bear, and since the plan has been set in motion, since the vast majority of life is outside of her control, she concentrates on the path instead.
Much to her relief, the entrance to Le C&oelig;ur is unguarded. Complexe centrale's core control room, much larger than any other room, is a forlorn vast emptiness before, at a click of the scientist's remote, the space is populated by dense clusters of apparatus, rotating holograms, and flashing alarms still weeping for a tragedy eons past. And in the middle of it all, under a thick cover of graphite-glass, rests the button to unleash an all-consuming fire, triggered in the bleakest of circumstances: the objective she has tried to reach for the past six months.
She opens the case, and as she gazes long at the button, she grieves for three young men whom she tricked to their deaths, smothering possibilities that could have been. But then she reminisces about this family of four on an idyllic beach at the edge of Montr&eacute;al, afternoon hours stretching into an eternal bliss, time frozen for, by, love, and she sees Olivia and Aur&eacute;lie, still young enough to be enveloped in those warm wafts of wonder, where sand could be the finest brick and mortar for towering structures of medieval fantasy, a world of play only a child could understand, and she realizes the cause she fights for is well worth every sacrifice&mdash;yes, she made the right choice&mdash;and she feels at peace.
The fate of humanity lies beneath her palm.
So she presses the button without hesitation.

Oliver DeCannes, Robert Millson, and Emery Sanchez spend their final moments in a tight embrace. The language of their hug says everything. The pressure of each finger a word, the warm bundle of bodies a sentence. And in a strange moment of sudden clarity, the world comes into focus for Robert. He knows he will soon meet his end, but it is with comfort that he learns it will be in his brothers' arms. So he holds on tighter, and the others strengthen their grip in response.
Whereupon the Hounds lunge at once towards the three friends.
But before they can sink their wicked spikes into any one of them, a wall of ferocious blaze blasts into the room: the dragon has been released, and its breath, bearing the heat of a thousand suns, devours everything.